---
layout: post
title: Open source products and businesses
image: img/open_bridge.jpg
author: [Himani]
date: 2020-07-02T07:03:47.149Z
tags:
  - open source
  - businesses
---

Study about open source products and businesses.

---

For starters open source products and businesses may seem complicated and
mysterious. Questions such as what is an open source product? How does an open
source business work?Which kind of people are involved and why business
platforms should adopt it could be involved and raised. Open source business
started So,let’s understand it’s bits and core in the simplest possible manner
here.

### What is an open source product or an OSS( OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE)?

Open source products are the end products of the product creators whose source
code is kept open to the public who can view the code and desired programmers
can modify it,alter it to meet their personal needs and can redistribute it to
other active developers within the community.

It is done in hope that the end product is further developed so that the newly
derived product can be sold in the market with better features and productivity.
This is where open source holds its core advantage.Developers are remotely
engaged together for the same goal,collaborating innovatively and contributing
actively.

Let’s go through examples to understand it better-

Libreoffice ( used for documents, presentations,spreadsheets and databases ) VLC
media player ( used for audio files,video files,webcams and streaming podcasts )
GIMP ( used for photo editing ) are all OSS and open source products,whose
source code are available to the people and accordingly any successed innovation
edited to it is updated to all the users. However it is not only subjected to
innovative parts ! It highly depends on a person’s interest and capability. Some
engage themselves with fixing bugs , some with writing additional codes , some
with designing , some with documentation and others as providing customer
services and etc. So here you are given flexibility on what kind of open source
project you want to work on.

**YOU CAN WORK ON OPEN SOURCE PROJECTS SUCH AS** ;

- Open source CRM-( customer service management ) -- Freshsales -- Hubspot CRM
  -- Flowlu
- Open source project management -- Trello --Zoho
- Blockchain open source --Hyperledger --Ripple

**NOW WHAT ARE OPEN SOURCE BUSINESS** ? Companies who make their business
protocol as open source and believe in developing their company through
networking of human talent is an open source business.

**HOWEVER , AN OPEN SOURCE BUSINESS COULD BE UNDERSTOOD ONLY BY ITS SOFTWARE’S
LICENSING ASPECT**

1.Proprietary licensing 2.Open source licensing 3.Dual licensing

**1.PROPRIETARY LICENSING** Proprietary licensing is created to maintain
confidentiality,control distribution and generate profit. Here, the licensor
forms certain restrictions on a licensees’ part such as the licensee is not
allowed to modify or inspect the underlying source code.Licensees in proprietary
licensing need to pay fees to the licensor in order to use the product,
monetising the licensor’s software.

**2.OPEN SOURCE LICENSING** Open source licensing does not preclude licensors
from using the corresponding software from using it commercially but certain
restrictions are made for future licensee distribution of that software. Eg. 1.
Permissive open source licenses such as apache software licensing and BSD (
Berkeley distribution license ). 2. Restrictive open source licenses also called
as copyleft licenses - GPL ( General public license ).

**3.DUAL LICENSING** Dual licensing is subjected to both the proprietary and
open source licensing. After getting their preferred license,developers focus on
deriving a new feature to an existing product or source code whereas users use
it for being free.Apart from that open source service providers work parallely
too. They work on providing consultancy,installation,integration,maintenance
upgrades and any technical support needed. Thus all kinds of communities are
involved.From programmers,designers,managers to users.

**TODAY** open source business strategies are overtaking all the traditional
business models . A lot of people are attracted towards this platform, for it
gives you an opportunity to showcase your ability.Open innovation takes place
with synergies and accumulating greater revenue with less costs,less legal
fees.Parallely,products are better and more innovative.
